# risc_v_alu
This project implements a RISC-V 32 bit ALU for RV32I instruction set using system verilog. 

Further, to test all the instructions of that require an ALU operation in RV32I instruction set, a python based RSIC-V emulator has been developed and it is further explained below.

# Technologies used:
- System verilog - To develop the RISC-V ALU
- Python - to develop the RISC-V emulator and the test framework
- Cocotb - To write test benches to verify the working of the ALU

# Prerequisite 
- Icarus verilog should be installed as the Cocotb framework is instructed to use  Icarus verilog to compile system verilog files (The compiler can be changed in the makefile)
- Python with Cocotb installed


# Repository structure
- src: This directory contains all the system verilog source files
- test: This directory contains all the unit test files and the RISC-V emulator to test the entire ALU. This folder also contains the makefile used by cocotb and other text files used by the testbench for testing the ALU

# Instructions to run and test the ALU:
Once all the required frameworks are installed, follow the below steps to test the ALU.

- Add the instructions to be run test/risc_v_alu_test.txt. Follow the below rules while updating the text file.
  - All the instructions should be of the format: "instruction rd,rs1,rs2". The parser is case and space sensitive. The operands should be separated from the instructon by a space and the operands within themself should be separated by commas without any space.
  - The operands that are valid are:
    - rd can be any register between x0 and x31
    - rs1 can be any register between x0 and x31
    - rs2 can be an immediate *integer* value or any register between x0 and x31
  - Update the value of regsiters to be used for the test in the regsiter_data.txt file. Line 1 will hold the value of register x0, line 2 will hold the value of register x1, line 3 will hold the value of register x2, so on and so forth.
- Move to the test directory and run the following command to test the execution of instructions mentioned in risc_v_alu_test.txt file
  - make TESTS=../src/risc_v_alu.sv toplevel=RISC_V_ALU module=risc_v_alu_tb
- The above test will run all the given instructions on the ALU one by one and compare the results with the value generated by the python RISC-V emulator. The test will pass if both the emulator and the ALU has produced the same output


# Design of RISC-V emulator
To be updated






